---
title: "7:30pm Swedenborg Community Victoria: David Moffat - The Spiritual World: Our Eternal Home & its influence on us now"
date: 2022-10-28 00:00:00 +1000 AEDT
eventstart: 2022-10-28 19:30:00 +1000 AEDT
eventend: 2022-10-28 22:00:00 +1000 AEDT
expirydate: 2022-10-28 22:00:00 +1000 AEDT
zoomlink: https://us02web.zoom.us/j/88064293631?pwd=RkkzdzB5OVFOVG10N28vdEZLQWhIQT09
img: images/melbourneID.jpg
---

Swedenborg Community Victoria presents speaker David Moffat on "The Spiritual World: Our Eternal Home & its influence on us now."

The Spiritual World is a key concept within Swedenborg's spiritual cosmology.   Not only is it the place where we will find our eternal home, heaven / hell, it is important to realise its influence upon our lives here and now.

Swedenborg claimed to live as a citizen of two worlds for much of the second half of his life, simultaneously conscious of both the physical and spiritual realm. He assures us that we are also "dual citizens", and that when our physical body dies we will live on in this spiritual world. We will spend an evening together examining the important implications of this idea to the whole of Swedenborg's spiritual output, and indeed, our understanding of the world we inhabit.

The presenter David Moffat is the Spiritual Leader of the wider Swedenborg community in Victoria.

Please join us at the Swedenborg discussion group, either:

- live in person at unit 3, 20 Duerdin Street, Clayton, Vic. 3168

- or [click to join Zoom](https://us02web.zoom.us/j/88064293631?pwd=RkkzdzB5OVFOVG10N28vdEZLQWhIQT09) when the meeting time arrives (if needed, the Meeting ID is 880 6429 3631 and Password 11).  

If you know of someone who you think could be interested in participating in the meeting, please feel free to forward this info to them.

For more information on this or other events in Victoria [click here](https://www.swedenborgcommunityvictoria.net.au/events/) or contact Neville Jarvis the organiser by email neville.jarvis@swedenborgcommunityvictoria.net.au or phone 0490 494 009.

Due to various circumstances, this session will be the last for 2022. Periodically check the Swedenborg Community Victoria website (see above link) for updates regarding future meetings for 2023. You may wish to [(click here)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VsbuxkXYbRI) to watch a video from the Swedenborg Foundation (USA) on Why Jesus Was Born.