---
title: "7pm: talk and exhibition 'Journeying Through the Enneagram, a personal account' by artist Marion van den Driesschen"
date: 2022-01-01 00:00:00 +1000 AEDT
eventstart: 2022-06-18 19:00:00 +1000 AEDT
eventend: 2022-06-18 22:00:00 +1000 AEDT
expirydate: 2022-06-18 22:00:00 +1000 AEDT
zoomlink: https://us02web.zoom.us/j/89832027177?pwd=L1NDZytIb2MrU0pHMkJ4SVJBdG5EQT09
img: images/sydID.jpg
---

Artist Marion van den Driesschen will speak about the work currently on exhibition at the Centre, entitled 'Journeying Through the Enneagram, a personal account.'

Presented live at the Swedenborg Centre (and also on Zoom): -

[Click to join Zoom](https://us02web.zoom.us/j/89832027177?pwd=L1NDZytIb2MrU0pHMkJ4SVJBdG5EQT09) when the meeting time arrives.

The enneagram as taught and used in the Fourth Way spiritual teachings is a figure which can be used to map any process or relationship between things which we wish to understand. This figure is an extremely useful tool for deepening one's understanding of things and see more clearly the previously hidden interactions between things, whether that be in nature, in our lives, our psychology or our spirituality. Marion will be sharing from her own experience in using the enneagram as part of her artistic expression and its help in better understanding herself and the world. She will be showing some of her wonderful colourful artworks as illustrations of the enneagram, some of which also show her deep interest in mandalas.

Marion van den Driesschen has been exhibiting regularly since 1986 in various galleries in Sydney and the Central Coast. Her works have also been shown in The Netherlands and Broome, WA. Today her work is in private and corporate collections in Australia, the US and the Netherlands. Working in ‘mixed media and collage on paper’ and ‘acrylics and oils on canvas’ her abstract paintings and drawings are an expression of the power and beauty of the landscapes she has encountered on her travels and Pittwater and Ku-ring-gai National Park, where she lived for 20 years. Her love of life drawing is also an influence in her work with figures sometimes emerging from the landscape or the twisted form of a tree and it is to this discipline that she often returns to celebrate the beauty of the human form. Over the last 20 years she has also found mandalas to be a form which has opened up a new stream of creative expression.

We look forward to seeing you there.