---
title: "7:30pm Swedenborg Community Victoria: Sarah Walker - Decoding Swedenborg"
date: 2022-05-01 00:00:00 +1000 AEDT
eventstart: 2022-05-27 19:30:00 +1000 AEDT
eventend: 2022-05-27 22:00:00 +1000 AEDT
expirydate: 2022-05-27 22:00:00 +1000 AEDT
zoomlink: https://us02web.zoom.us/j/88064293631?pwd=RkkzdzB5OVFOVG10N28vdEZLQWhIQT09
img: images/melbourneID.jpg
---

Swedenborg Discussion Group talk and Zoom presentation by Sarah Walker on "Decoding Swedenborg"

Like most texts that teach about spiritual life, what Swedenborg shares and writes can at times be confusing, abstract and seeming to contradict itself. He hops between a number of different main themes and weaves in and out of these. One minute he'll be talking about the development of man through the ages, the next about the glorification of the Lord . In another in-breath he's suddenly talking about the regeneration of the human mind and then on the exhale he's switched to describing his own experiences in the spiritual world. Then he might move into an exposition on a part of biblical text and then track off into a deep exploration of what the Divine Life is in relation to the universal cosmos - with a few other interesting ideas thrown into the mix like life on other planets, the conjugial love that binds the masculine and the feminine in marriage and the functioning of the human body as a collective mind that is heaven.

Whilst he emphatically insists that we pay attention to the science of correspondences as the key to cracking the code on how to read the Bible spiritually.... we can find ourselves scratching our heads wishing that he would offer us a key to cracking the code of his own writings also. What I've come to realise is that he has. That this key is actually embedded in what he has written ....

Join us as Sarah Walker takes us into an exploration of the cryptographical nature of the works and writings of Emmanuel Swedenborg and as she shares her insights on the key that can decode them.

[Click to join Zoom](https://us02web.zoom.us/j/88064293631?pwd=RkkzdzB5OVFOVG10N28vdEZLQWhIQT09) when the meeting time arrives.

(if needed, the Meeting ID is 880 6429 3631 and Password 11).  

For more information on events in Victoria, [click here](https://www.swedenborgcommunityvictoria.net.au/events/)