---
title: "7:30pm: Spiritual Symbolism of Nature & Elephants in South and Southeast Asia"
date: 2024-04-01 00:00:00
eventstart: 2024-06-28 20:30:00
eventend: 2024-06-28 21:30:00
expirydate: 2024-06-28 21:30:00
img: images/melbourneID.jpg
---

Online presentation by Dr Raj Ramanathapillai.
Event hosted by Swedenborg Community Victoria.

In Hinduism & Buddhism, nature holds deep spiritual meaning. Ancient scriptures emphasize its importance in spiritual practice.

In Hindu and Buddhist traditions, natural elements such as wildlife, trees, rivers, and mountains have a spiritual significance. Ancient Vedic scriptures in Hinduism reflect how Indians were inspired by the forces of nature. Similarly, Buddhist scriptures such as the Theragatha and Therigatha emphasise the philosophical notion of 'going into the forest'. In Hindu and Buddhist traditions, references to elephants and other wildlife have a profound importance in practices of worship and the attainment of spiritual goals. This presentation explores the religious symbolism of nature in Hinduism and Buddhism in South and Southeast Asia.

Speaker Dr Raj Ramanathapillai holds a Master's in Counselling from Monash University; he also earned a Master's in Religious Studies and a PhD in Philosophy from McMaster University in Canada. As an associate professor, Raj taught Philosophy and Peace and Justice studies at Gettysburg College in the United States. During this time, he published many research articles. In Australia, he served as a counsellor and worked with asylum seekers and refugees who were trauma survivors. Currently, Raj serves as a therapeutic specialist and works with victims of family violence.

View more details [here](https://www.eventbrite.com.au/e/spiritual-symbolism-of-nature-elephants-in-south-and-southeast-asia-tickets-913070758217?aff=oddtdtcreator) or also book your ticket there. Online event access details will be provided by the event organiser after you book a ticket.