---
title: "7pm: talk by Guy Patching on 'Written on the Heart - Barques and Chariots'"
date: 2024-08-01 00:00:00
eventstart: 2024-11-02 19:00:00
eventend: 2024-11-02 21:00:00
expirydate: 2024-11-02 21:00:00
zoomlink: https://us02web.zoom.us/j/89832027177?pwd=L1NDZytIb2MrU0pHMkJ4SVJBdG5EQT09
img: images/sydID.jpg
---

"Written on the Heart - Barques and Chariots"

On Saturday, 2nd November, from 7pm-9pm, guest speaker Guy Patching will be giving a talk at the Swedenborg Centre under the title "Written on the Heart - Barques and Chariots" (your car, boat, spaceship, canoe, chariot represents your belief system). The talk will be in two halves, barques first, then chariots. There will be a series of continual images on the big screen of boats in the first half of the talk, and chariots in the second half.

The title phrase "written on the heart" comes from Dr Groves's advice to a question Guy asked on what he should do with his old work notebooks, and his suggestions included: toilet paper, Vinnies, the shredder, the white ants, or the bonfire, but finally he offered the serious advice to have it "written on the heart."

The Barques talk will of course draw on Egyptology, but also the canoes of the Native Americans, and the boats in The Lord of the Rings, with some meaningful segues between these examples.

Guy was a student of Dr Philip Groves. Some related artistic imagery will be displayed at the Centre. Enquiries: Rob Evans at [rme142857@gmail.com](mailto:rme142857@gmail.com) or Joe Vandermeer at [joe@swedenborg.com.au](mailto:joe@swedenborg.com.au)

Join in person at the Swedenborg Centre, or on Zoom using [this link](https://us02web.zoom.us/j/89832027177?pwd=L1NDZytIb2MrU0pHMkJ4SVJBdG5EQT09) when the event commences.  

More of the works of artist Michael J Wright's will be on exhibition until the next future talk. This is the 2nd of a new series of exhibits of Michael's work provided with the blessings of his estate.

[Click here](https://static.swedenborg.com.au/pdf/fliers/syd20241102.pdf) to open a flier with more details.