---
title: "12:30pm: explore spiritual work insights of Dr Maurice Nicoll"
date: 2024-09-01 00:00:00
eventstart: 2024-10-17 12:30:00
eventend: 2024-10-17 14:30:00
expirydate: 2024-10-17 14:30:00
zoomlink: https://us02web.zoom.us/j/320544045?pwd=QjZtbUxvVk81b2dweUtZZTE3ZE9IZz09
img: images/nicollID.jpg
---

British psychiatrist Dr Maurice Nicoll was a friend and close colleague of Carl Jung and was seen as a successor to Jung who could provide leadership to the emerging psychology profession. But this role was never fulfilled by Nicoll, because he met P D Ouspensky who taught the Fourth Way of Gurdjieff. Nicoll was insightful in working with dreams, and this was perfectly attuned to his growing familiarity with the writings of Swedenborg. As he matured in years and as a teacher Nicoll gravitated more and more towards Swedenborg and the bible as his primary sources. Maurice Nicoll gave up a lucrative Harley Street Psychology practice to study the Gurdjieff work, which was a brave yet profitable step for him. Nicoll later understood the psychology of the Fourth Way teachings very well, documenting his insights for his students in the "Psychological Commentaries on the teaching of Gurdjieff and Ouspensky." His books "The Mark" and "The New Man" show a deep understanding and use of parables of the New Testament, which very much show his appreciation of Swedenborg.

In these reading sessions we will be exploring some of the material from "Commentaries...", helped by Swedenborg's writings and Fourth Way teachings. We will also explore "The Mark" and "The New Man".

To read a very informative page with linked article by Jeffrey Adams based on his extensive and excellent research into Dr Nicoll's personal life and diaries, [click here](https://swedenborg.com/scholars-the-swedenborgian-tree-gracing-maurice-nicolls-garden-of-esoterica/).

Drop in to the Centre in person, or participate using Zoom. See events column for further details, event dates, and for a Zoom link.

[Click to join Zoom](https://us02web.zoom.us/j/320544045?pwd=QjZtbUxvVk81b2dweUtZZTE3ZE9IZz09) when the meeting time arrives.


