---
title: "6:30pm: monthly Spiritual Monday Movie Night"
date: 2024-10-18 00:00:00
eventstart: 2025-12-01 18:30:00
eventend: 2025-12-01 20:30:00
expirydate: 2025-12-01 20:30:00
img: images/movieID.jpg
---

At 6:30pm tonight (and on the first Monday of each month) we will again be screening a free spiritual movies at the Roseville New Church (4 Shirley Road, Roseville NSW).

Movies are selected based on a spiritual theme or by film-makers who were influenced by Emanuel Swedenborg's writings.

Tonight we are screening the classic 1946 movie called "It's a Wonderful Life" in which a frustrated businessman, George Bailey (Jimmy Stewart), never got a chance to fulfill his life's ambitions of exploring the world and building skyscrapers. As he watches his friends and family become success stories, he dreads running his father's lending business and building it up to match the business of a grumpy rival, Mr Potter. When a financial discrepancy puts George in a difficult position, he contemplates jumping from a bridge on Christmas Eve. But his guardian angel, Clarence Odbody, is sent to show George what life would have been like in his town of Bedford Falls if he had never been born.

Join us to celebrate the end of a movie year with Popcorn, Jaffas, and Maltesers.

Look forward to seeing you at these Roseville New Church first Monday of the month movie nights.

For a poster of the latest movie titles, [click here](https://static.swedenborg.com.au/pdf/fliers/SpiritualMovieNightsPoster.pdf).

These movies are screened for free publically under our BSML screening licence.