---
title: "7pm: talk by Joe Vandermeer on Tiny Worlds, Big Lessons"
date: 2024-08-01 00:00:00
eventstart: 2025-02-15 19:00:00
eventend: 2025-02-15 21:00:00
expirydate: 2025-02-15 21:00:00
zoomlink: https://us02web.zoom.us/j/89832027177?pwd=L1NDZytIb2MrU0pHMkJ4SVJBdG5EQT09
img: images/sydID.jpg
---

Topic: TBA

On Saturday, 15th February, 7pm-9pm, Joe Vandermeer will be giving a talk about Tiny Worlds, Big Lessons, on the relationship between the microscopic world and its relationship to our spirital life.

In this talk, Joe will delve into the fascinating world of microscopy, exploring how the infinitely detailed structures revealed through a microscope can profoundly shift our perspective on life and ourselves. The use of microscopes demonstrates the richness and intricacy of even the smallest forms of life, teaching us that what we often dismiss as insignificant is, in reality, an essential part of a vast interconnected whole. This mirrors our own inner complexity and the need to feel and sense our connection with the unbroken flow of life. By observing the natural world—examining a grain of sand’s vivid colors under polarizing light or the astonishing forms and behaviours of micro-organisms — we cultivate a sense of wonder and awe, which is the foundation of wisdom and transformation. The act of looking closely through a microscope becomes more than a scientific endeavor; it is a way to enrich our understanding of the universe, align our energies for personal growth, and reflect on the spiritual correspondences of visible and invisible worlds. As Swedenborg suggested, true discovery arises not from reading books alone but from direct experience, fueled by love and wonder. The microscope is a tool not only for scientific observation but also for inspiring a deeper appreciation of life’s mysteries and our role within it.

A new set of works by the late artist Michael J Wright's will go on exhibition that day. This is part of a series of exhibits of Michael's work provided with the blessings of his estate. Enquiries: Rob Evans at [rme142857@gmail.com](mailto:rme142857@gmail.com) or Joe Vandermeer at [joe@swedenborg.com.au](mailto:joe@swedenborg.com.au)

Join in person at the Swedenborg Centre, or on Zoom using [this link](https://us02web.zoom.us/j/89832027177?pwd=L1NDZytIb2MrU0pHMkJ4SVJBdG5EQT09) when the event commences.