---
title: "Saturday 7pm: John Bayot talk - Paying for Our Existence"
date: 2025-03-18 00:00:00
eventstart: 2025-04-05 19:00:00
eventend: 2025-04-05 21:00:00
expirydate: 2025-04-05 21:00:00
zoomlink: https://us02web.zoom.us/j/320544045?pwd=QjZtbUxvVk81b2dweUtZZTE3ZE9IZz09
img: images/sydID.jpg
---

"We have two fundamental methods of getting fine energies into ourselves. One is to transform our coarse energies into fine energies.  The other is to assimilate fine energies from an outside source" - Dr Philip Groves

On Saturday, 5th April, 7pm-9pm, John Bayot (a student of Dr Groves) will talk about Paying for Our Existence and the monsters that blind us to the Reality of Life.

How is it ever possible to pay for our existence? What is this statement trying to tell you? Is it a philosophical view we must reflect on? Why should we pay for our existence? After all, we do pay taxes. That should even the ledger.

There are innumerable ways of looking at this profound, yet very necessary statement. A universal scan of our lives quickly tells you that there are innumerable ways of examining this insightful phrase. A whole lot of topics come cascading down for your own illumination and its urgency of presence demands that you examine your life to a greater degree. You have been brought to this moment in time, where the gate of Higher Life beckons you to step in...

The phyletic stream of your ancestral voice echoes its hopes and wishes for you to transcend your limitation and assist in their growth process. And a biological principle magnifies this need to be exercised. Hence, there is that burning need to transform yourself from your current state of bankruptcy into a person filled with golden qualities. Yet, you must battle within to slay the monsters that blinds you to the Reality of Life.

Finally, it is with great excitement to respond to your soul's quest and visualise your uniqueness in discharging your debt to Mankind and to the Divine. Only then are you Real! The undertaking of this pathway leads to methods of inner development that will have you emanating like the Sun.

This is also a launch of the 6th of a fresh new series of exhibits showcasing Michael Wrights artwork.

Enquiries: Rob Evans at [rme142857@gmail.com](mailto:rme142857@gmail.com) or Joe Vandermeer at [joe@swedenborg.com.au](mailto:joe@swedenborg.com.au)

Join in person at the Swedenborg Centre, or on Zoom using [this link](https://us02web.zoom.us/j/320544045?pwd=QjZtbUxvVk81b2dweUtZZTE3ZE9IZz09) when the event commences.

[Click here](https://static.swedenborg.com.au/pdf/fliers/syd20250405.pdf) to open a flier with more details.