---
title: "7pm: Joe Vandermeer talk on Sacred Geometry"
date: 2025-03-18 00:00:00
eventstart: 2025-07-05 19:00:00
eventend: 2025-07-05 21:00:00
expirydate: 2025-07-05 21:00:00
zoomlink: https://us02web.zoom.us/j/320544045?pwd=QjZtbUxvVk81b2dweUtZZTE3ZE9IZz09
img: images/sydID.jpg
---

On Saturday, 5th July, 7pm-9pm, join us online or at the Swedenborg Centre for pizza and a talk by Joe Vandermeer (a student of Swedenborg, Dr Groves, Gurdjieff and of music and Sacred Islamic Geometry). Joe will discuss one of his favourite hobbies, drawing beautiful geometric patterns. What makes it sacred? Why geometry?

This will also be the a launch of a fresh new series of exhibits showcasing Michael Wrights artwork.

Enquiries: Rob Evans at [rme142857@gmail.com](mailto:rme142857@gmail.com) or Joe Vandermeer at [joe@swedenborg.com.au](mailto:joe@swedenborg.com.au)

Join in person at the Swedenborg Centre, or on Zoom using [this link](https://us02web.zoom.us/j/320544045?pwd=QjZtbUxvVk81b2dweUtZZTE3ZE9IZz09) when the event commences.

"Geometry is frozen music" - Goethe

Swedenborg teaches us that the essence of harmony is perfect union of Divine Love and Divine Wisdom.

"All beauty in the other life is from good in which is innocence, and according to the quality of the good and of the innocence, such is the beauty." Heaven and Hell 280

"Good is what gives truth its form, and that form is beauty." Divine Love and Wisdom 280

"Heaven is in the form of a human because it is in the form of love and wisdom in use, which is the form of all harmony." Heaven and Hell 59

"When a person is in good and truth from the Lord, their internal and external are in harmony, and they act as one." Arcana Coelestia 3623

[Click here](https://static.swedenborg.com.au/pdf/fliers/syd20250705.pdf) to open a flier with more details.