---
title: "11am: Dell Rose presents (online) 'Australia as a Swedenborgian Project'"
date: 2024-08-01 00:00:00
eventstart: 2025-02-14 11:00:00
eventend: 2025-02-14 13:00:00
expirydate: 2025-02-14 13:00:00
zoomlink: https://us02web.zoom.us/j/5584033057?pwd=aUYzQ2pXWkl3RTdtNXlCQ1VrL2tHZz09&omn=8486075009
img: images/sydID.jpg
---

Scholar and Program Manager of the Swedenborg Library in Chicago, Dell Rose will present an online talk on "Australia as a Swedenborgian Project" on Friday, 14th February, 11am-1pm. Emanuel Swedenborg's mystical writings were a profound influence on Alfred Deakin, one of Australia's founding fathers and second Prime Minister. We will delve into how Deakin's Swedenborgian beliefs shaped his vision for Australia's political and social landscape, promoting ideals of spiritual enlightenment moral governance. Participants will gain insights into the intersection of spirituality and politics in Australia's early history, and the lasting impact of Deakin's Swedenborgian faith on the nation's development. 

Dell J. Rose serves as the Program Director of the Swedenborg Library in Chicago. Additionally, Dell holds the position of Swedenborg Doctoral Fellow with the Swedenborg Society in the U.K. He is a doctoral candidate at the Centre for the History of Hermetic Philosophy and Related Currents at the University van Amsterdam. His research focuses on the intersection of Western esotericism and political reform, particularly with Swedenborgianism in the 19th century. During the past month he has been conducting primary research in Australia. 

Enquiries Joe Vandermeer at [joe@swedenborg.com.au](mailto:joe@swedenborg.com.au)

Join us online on Zoom using [this link](https://us02web.zoom.us/j/5584033057?pwd=aUYzQ2pXWkl3RTdtNXlCQ1VrL2tHZz09&omn=8486075009) when the event commences.
or Zoom Meeting Room: 558 403 3057
Password: Swedenborg

For a web page with more details, [click here](http://hosted.verticalresponse.com/159764/ac6f62bb45/1404088942/bcff81de29/).